first folder:sbin is System binaries for administrative commands, means which helps to manage the system as administrator, sbin folder has commands like useradd, userdl, usermod.
how to create user: sudo useradd <username> ex: sudo useradd spandana, 
To set the password for the user: sudo passwd <username>
To go to the user: su spandana, to come out of the created user, give cntrl+d.
ls boot, boot folder is used to reboot or restart your system.
bin folder: bin stands for user binaries, all the commands/binaries inside bin folder are non-administrative. 
we can grant access to the regular users using these commands.anybody can use these commands which are in bin folder.
let say for ex: user wants to check the date and time of linux machine, they can execute the command: date.
usr folder: /usr Contains most user-installed applications and libraries.
Note: Commands: cd / will take you to the root directory of file system in Linux.
srv folder: srv stands for server, we can store any configuration files or any information related to our webserver.
opt folder: /opt	Used to store optional third-party dependencies or software.like java. opt folder is a common location for third party dependencies.
mnt folder: mnt is stands for mount, it is used by linux administrators to temporary mount the new disk or volume.
var folder: mostly var is used to store the log files.
home folder: /home	is Default location for user home directories.
/tmp	folder: it is used to store Temporary files (cleared on reboot).if we store any file in tmp folder, it will delete after few days.
root folder: root is the home directoy of the root
Note: any user we created, their home directory is /home/username, but for root th home dir is /root
run folder: run folder stores the runtime data of the processess.
etc folder: like windows we has C folder, which contains all the system configuration files, same in linux also, all the system configuration files are stored in etc folder.
using these files we can configure and modify our system, its like settings on our mobile.
for ex:the command "passwd" we can modify pwd any user on linux machine.
